---
title: week2
categories:
- GSOC
- annotationTool
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
---
This week turned out to be very productive and efficient, after some initial hiccups in the first week. This week my target was to build an annotation tool that could help historians or anyone interested in studying gestures present in artworks and paintings. So, I ended up making a full-fledged working GESTURE_ANNOTATOR app, which allows you to select the image you want to detect pose on, select the appropriate JSON file containing the key points of pose, this key points are then used to generate the, what I call the "Pose Emulator", its a widget that I have made which mimics the human pose . The user can then see the actual image along with the emulator overlapping it, which then can seemly be dragged and corrected manually based on the image and the Domain knowledge of the user/annotator.
The tool pretty much has all the basic features(of course there is always room for development), and can be used by anybody willing to explore the area of gestures and poses.
Implementing it from scratch was bit of a pain , given that the library users are new and still in the early immature stage, as  a result, there  are only less than 70 questions  on StackOverflow,which means anyone willing  to use this library has to experiment with the docs and find your solution yourself, as I did. Though, I really enjoyed this experience since it really helped me learn, to actually make things from scratch and understand and write better code.


<p>Things  implemented in this week</p>
<ul>
    <li>Designed a widget to mimic the human pose</li>
    <li>Customized it, to retrieve the related json file, for a given image</li>
    <li>Added the functionality to modify the gesture and save the modified gesture </li>
    <li>Added other interactive features to customize the plots and the widget</li>
</ul>

<p>Things yet to implemented </p>
<ul>
<li>To deploy the jupyter notebook for everyone to use</li>
<li>Deploy the same on HPC cluster for Redhenlab</li>
<li>Make the app more interactive </li>


</ul>

Also, to better understand the project I have made a 10 minutes video ,which is available on youtube.You can check it out here.
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ON_xI1mweUY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
So , this is it. Will keep you posted about my progress. STAY TUNED!
 
